```
In the code above, what is i represent for?
```

In the code above, the variable i is used as a loop variable to iterate through the range of numbers from 1 up to and including n. It is used in the outer loop of the partitions method to build up the p array which stores the values of the partition function for each number from 0 up to and including n.

Specifically, i represents the number for which we are calculating the partition function P(i). The p array at index i stores the value of P(i), which is the number of distinct ways in which i can be expressed as a sum of non-increasing positive integers.

```
In the code above, if j exceeds i, what does it mean?
```

In the code above, if j exceeds i, it means that we have found all the possible pentagonal numbers that can be used to calculate the partition function for the current value of i. This is because j represents the jth pentagonal number, and we are iterating over all pentagonal numbers less than or equal to i.

When j exceeds i, we exit the inner loop because we know that any further pentagonal numbers will be too large to be useful in computing the partition function for i. So, we break out of the inner loop and move on to the next value of i in the outer loop.

```
In the code above, 


"

// If k is odd, add P(i - j) to p[i], else subtract P(i - j) from p[i]

"


what does it mean? 
```


In the code above, the comment:


> // If k is odd, add P(i - j) to p[i], else subtract P(i - j) from p[i]

refers to the calculation of the partition function P(i) at each iteration of the inner loop.

The partition function P(i) can be calculated using Euler's pentagonal formula, which involves subtracting or adding the value of P(i - j) for certain values of j. Whether we add or subtract the value of P(i - j) depends on the parity of k, where k is the loop variable that generates the pentagonal numbers.

Specifically, if k is odd, we add P(i - j) to p[i], otherwise we subtract it. This is because the terms in Euler's pentagonal formula alternate between positive and negative, with the sign of each term determined by the parity of its corresponding pentagonal number.




```
Why do we need to add when odd? Why we need to subtract if even?
```
The reason why we add or subtract P(i - j) to or from p[i] depending on the parity of k is because of the alternating signs of the terms in Euler's pentagonal formula.

The formula involves a sum over pentagonal numbers, with each term being multiplied by either 1 or -1. Specifically, the k-th term of the formula is:


> (-1)^(k-1) * P(i - j)
where j is the k-th pentagonal number.

The alternating signs of the terms come from the fact that the pentagonal numbers are generated by the formula:


> j = k * (3*k - 1) / 2

which can be simplified to:

> j = (k * (3*k - 1)) / 2

The expression (3*k - 1) is odd, so when k is odd, (3*k - 1) is even, and the value of j is positive. On the other hand, when k is even, (3*k - 1) is odd, and the value of j is negative. Therefore, the terms of Euler's pentagonal formula alternate in sign depending on the parity of the corresponding pentagonal number.

To compute P(i), we need to sum up all the terms in Euler's pentagonal formula for P(i). This sum is split into two parts, one with even-indexed terms and one with odd-indexed terms. The even-indexed terms are subtracted from P(i - j) and the odd-indexed terms are added. That's why we add P(i - j) when k is odd and subtract it when k is even.




```
In the code above, 


"

p[i] = p[i].add(p[i - j]);

"


what does it mean? 
```


In the code above, p[i].add(p[i - j]) is used to add the value of p[i - j] to p[i].

p[i] and p[i - j] are BigInteger objects, which are used to represent arbitrarily large integers. add() is a method of the BigInteger class that adds two BigInteger objects and returns a new BigInteger object representing their sum.

In this case, the value of p[i - j] is being added to p[i] and the result is assigned back to p[i] using the = operator. This is done in order to compute the value of the partition function P(n) for a given value of n.



```
What does this code mean?   ((k & 1) != 0)
```

In the code, ((k & 1) != 0) is a conditional statement that checks whether k is an odd number or not.

The & operator is a `bitwise AND operator`, which means it performs a logical AND operation on each bit of the two operands. 

When you perform a bitwise AND operation between an integer k and 1, 

> it returns 1 if the least significant bit of k is 1, indicating that k is an odd number. 

> Otherwise, it returns 0, indicating that k is an even number.

> So, ((k & 1) != 0) is equivalent to (k % 2 != 0), 

which checks if k is odd. If k is odd, the condition evaluates to true, and the code inside the if statement is executed. Otherwise, if k is even, the condition evaluates to false, and the code inside the else statement is executed.